From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, weekly discussion
with web developer and technologist
Scott Hanselman and hosted by
Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number four recorded Monday,
January 30th, 2006. Support for Hansel minutes
is provided by automated QA
makers of tests. Complete providing
automated testing of windows.net framework,
Java and web applications online@wwwdotautomatedqa.com.
And by Peter bloom.com start
with better controls finish with
better sites online at www
dot P E T E
R B L U M.
Dot com. Support is also
provided by.net developers journal the
world's leading.net developer magazine online
at www dot  dot
com. In this episode, Scott
focuses on continuous integration, highlighting
nearly 20 tools that you
can use today to help
automate the test and build
process. . Hey, this is
Carl Franklin. Hope you're having a
good Wednesday. It's his Hanselman
it's show number four and
I'm here with Scott Hanselman
again. Hi Scott. Hey Carl,
how's it going? Well, I'm
doing okay. How are you
this week? Oh, you know,
I am just get the
grind. It's the daily grind
here at Kerlin corporation. So
I'm sitting here up in
the executive row and everyone's
gone home at Carilion and
just listening to the hum
the hum of the build
servers. So we're doing And
something a little different this
week, right? We're not focusing
on so many different things.
You're going to get in
a little bit in depth
in one particular Technology. Yeah,
there's a something called continuous
integration that we practice here
at Corona and that I'm
a big fan of and
a number of people have
emailed me saying that they
thought it'd be cool if
we did a continuous integration
specific show. And since everyone
knows that I'm tools focused
and I wanted to find
a balance that was somewhere
between rattling off a bunch
of different tools and really
putting it into a, a
larger story arc and continuous
integration is one of those
things that you put a
bunch of tools together to
make something really amazing happen
within your organization. Okay. Before
we do that though, we
have some other things you
want to talk about in
starting with reveal. Yeah. So
yeah, before we do continuous
integration, a couple of fun
things reveal being the first,
this is just a really
bizarre, but cool piece of
eye candy for Firefox. This
is a basically like expos
a if you're familiar with
expos, when you push F
nine on a Macintosh, the
windows all shrink down to
tiny little thumbnails, this was
a tiny little thumbnail expos,
a clone for Firefox. So,
you know, Firefox is known
for its tabbed browsing. And
this makes little thumbnails of
all of the different sites
that you're currently and all
of your different tabs float
over the top of your
current site. So, you know,
personally, like right now I've
got 14 tabs and Firefox
and I can kind of
figure out which one is
which, but with reveal I
can hit  and it'll
bring up a whole screen
full of thumbnails of the
actual pages of that I'm
actually looking at. So then
I can click on them
and go there. It's kind
of cool. It's a shrink
stir.com/b M C. I, I
know That it requires the
latest version of Firefox it
isn't going to install in
mine. I just tried it.
Yeah. Firefox one five is
pretty much the one that
folks are moving towards right
now. This was done as
a piece of eye candy
for a contest for making
extensions in Firefox one five.
Great. Yeah. The other thing
is that the inimitable Clemens
Vassar's who has recently, of
course, everyone knows, moved to
Redmond and is going to
work for Microsoft is doing
some pretty crazy stuff. You
know, he always is trying
to make Indigo dance and
he's concerned he's not going
to be able to watch
German television when he's in
Redmond. So he has figured
out a way to basically
take a machine running beyond
TV, beyond TV, as an
inexpensive media center replacement. If
you've got an old hodgepodge
card or any kind of
a PCI TV card, you
can slap this into a
machine, spend 50 bucks and
get beyond TV from SnapStream
running on your system and
you can watch TV. He's
going to take a machine.
He's going to put it
in his dad's closet. And
he's going to run the
Indigo server stuff on that
machine. And basically remote using
windows, media player, and entire
windows media like Ajax experience
all the way to his
house in Seattle. So he'll
be sitting there watching, you
know, 35 channels of German
TV doing his own thing,
and he's gonna release the
code to that to the
world. Now this is a
very much a demo and
it was written for Clemens
by Clemens. So the audience
is the set of all
people who are Clemens, but
reading Clemens code as someone
who's reading, working on DAS
blog, which is a inherited
from Clemens is always a
treat. He's. You always learn
something when you read his
code and you can check
that stuff out at shrinks.com/b
M for Now, the streaming
stuff is just all in
media player and all that.
But what he's done is
added to the control layer
is that what basically this
is On TV has a
server component written in asp.net
and a series of comm
components that you can use
to make the instance of
beyond TV kind of dance.
And what he's done is
he has re remotely controlling
the instance of beyond TV.
So it's basically using their
abstraction layer on the hardware.
Yeah. And then basically creating
Indigo end points to make
that whole interface appear within
media player. Very nice. The
thing that's most significant about
that is that you don't
need client software to make
this work. This is all
done through media player. So
there's no zero install. Nice.
Yeah. It's pretty amazing stuff.
All right. So let's get
into A continuous integration. Once
you start by telling us
what this is. So continuous
integration is a concept that
was came from a paper
that Martin Fowler wrote along
with a guy named Matthew
Famo from ThoughtWorks Martin Fowler
is the chief scientist at
ThoughtWorks and Martin Fowler uses
the term continuous integration within
the larger extreme programming or
XP series of practices. And
continuous integration is something that's
been around for a long
time, but people really never
put a name on it.
It is the automation of
a daily build, the formalization
of that process, keeping a
single place where all source
code lives so that everyone
can always go to the
exact same place to get
the current source for the
current and any previous version,
it's automating the build, but
it's also automating the testing
so that you can run
the tests on the entire
suite at any time. Wow.
And then an executable would
pop out at the end.
So the ideal continuous integration
environment, in my opinion, and
in many people's opinion would
be a developer say at
Kirlian, for example, sits down.
He checks out his code
from incu or in our
case, we use CVS, but
this could be done at
any source code system checks
out as code. It goes
out to the command line
and he types build. And
he gets a complete bill
that is totally tested on
the spot. And if he
says something like build space,
install, it'll actually pop out
an MSI installer and he's
completely set up. I can
do this in a repeatable
fashion on any machine. He
can make changes to the
code, check it in. And
they build server dedicated to
this task would automatically run
the build upon his check-in.
Now there's some, there's some
arguments that you do these
things on a schedule, or
you do it on a
checkin for us at Kirlian.
We kind of do a
combination every single time someone
checks in a server on
the other end, starts watching
and says, all right, I'm
going to kick off a,
build someone, just check something.
I'm going to kick off
a bill, but I'll wait
10 minutes just in case
there's other things coming. Cause
you know, when you do
a check in, you might
have a couple of things
batched up. You do a
little check in, right? So
it's not going to kick
off a build every single
check-in. But once a batch
of things has been checked
in and nothing's happened for
say 10 minutes, it says,
all right, something dramatic has
happened. I'm going to run
a build. I want to
test the build. I'll build
an install and I'll send
a report to the entire
team. How long typically does
that process take for you
guys For us using a
big project? We've got one
that takes as much as
an hour, but for a
smaller project, it can take
between 10 and 20 minutes.
And is it easy to
interrupt? Like let's say you
actually did want to add
something else and you knew
that it was going to
break. So if you, yeah,
that's a good point. So
if you check something in
and you knew that it
would break the build, if
you didn't check it in
within that first 10 minute
window, you're you're, you're out
of luck, you'll get a
broken build, but the build
would be fixed upon your
immediate next check-in. So we
have literally dozens of ch
of builds a interesting, so
there's a number of tools
that you can get the
most well known is one
called cruise control. It's cruise
control.sourceforge.net. There's also some comp
competitors, a Draco Draco net,
dr. ACO, net.sourceforge.net and hippo,
which is another old one
that hasn't changed very recently,
hippo net.sourceforge.net. But cruise control
is largely thought of as
being the one that is
the most mature. It's the
one that is managed by
the ThoughtWorks guys. And this
is an automated build solution
and a server for.net written
and.net. And the final 1.0
release came out last November,
although we'd been using it
since version 0.7, very cool
cruise control runs as a
windows service. You can also
run it from the command
line and it will watch
your source control. It'll watch
your source control and check
to see if anything's updated.
And it works with virtually
any source control, CVS source,
safe per forest source gear,
PVCs star team, any source
control that's out there that's
worth its salt will, will
work just great. It will
watch that. And when it
detects that a change has
occurred, then it will kick
off the build. Typically these
builds are kicked off using
something like Nat. If you've
heard, you've heard of net.net
part of ad. Exactly Nat
is the port of ant,
which is basically make files
with angle brackets. It's basically
all is you can get
that@nantdotsourceforge.net, and Nant is a
similar to ms build. And
there are already already people
on the net who are
using cruise control with ms.
Build. So, you know, at
its simplest, you could certainly
kick off a batch file,
but for the most part,
cruise control and Nat go
hand in hand, the, the
idea is that you should
be able to always check
your source out, go out
to the command line and
type build, or go or
whatever, and get a built.
It needs to be that
simple. So when you are
doing, when you're building these
net files, you typically build
targets within them. So you'll
say build all build test,
build install so that people
can hit these different targets,
build debug bill release. These
are all targets within the
Nant file. This, this, this
XML based file. And these,
these tasks within the net
file can be written by
you or picked up from
other places. So there's a
task for getting sourced from
source control. There might be
a task for calling a
web service or looking in
the registry. Each of these
tasks is associated with a
specific XML element within that
net file. Wow, that's great.
How long have you guys
been using this? We've been
doing this for probably three
and a half, four years.
This was one of the
first things that I wanted
to make happen when I
got here to Karelian we've
also got a number of
XP pundits. Like we had
Wayne Allen, who's an ex an
extreme programming expert. We had
a guy named Jim little
now Jim shore, who worked
here at Kirlian, who now
works elsewhere, focusing entirely on
extreme programming. So we really
had a confluence where all
these people who were into
this style of development came
together really quickly. And then
Patrick Caldwell bought a thing called
an ambient orb. This is
like a, basically a big
crystal ball that would glow
green or red, depending on
the bill, the health of
the bill, God other people
online have put together, you
know, Budweiser, neon signs that
flash, if the build is
broken, the idea of being
that collective code ownership happens
when you have an automated
build, if you schedule a
build, you don't know how
things are doing. You don't
know if, if you're, if
you're healthy, but if you
can look up and see
a stop light that says
red, green, yellow, you know,
that things are good. That's
very cool. I sounded like
Christopher walk in there for
a second. You'll know that
the build is healthy. So
where does FX cop fit
into the puzzle? So this
is the thing that's so
amazing about continuous integration and
its simplest. It is simply
using net and then unit
to build and test your
stuff. But what are other
things you could do to
really improve the quality of
your software? Yeah. FX cop
is a rules engine that
you can get it shrinks
to.com/b M B. This is
a tool that Microsoft released
that has rules like properties
should have camel casing or
make sure that public interfaces
have words that are spelled
correctly. I mean, all the
kinds of things that use
that are really go on
said that you say should
happen. You know, don't put
misspelled words in public properties
or anything for that matter,
or make sure that when
you're doing a calm integration,
you have calm, visible equals
true or false. I mean,
all of these litany of
rules that the guys that
made the Microsoft base class
library, the.net base class library
followed, you get these rules
as well, and then you
can write them yourself. So
after you build, after you
test ethics, cop can be
run at the command line
and generate a report that
tells you about all these
different things about your, your
source code and with FX
cop, it's all done via
reflection and we've added rules.
Plugable DLLs. You can write
yourself to check for specific
things that you want to
cover within your particular project
rules about how property should
be named, how fields should
be done, how inheritance should
work. It's totally up to
you. What's great about this
is that the XML that
comes out the XML report
that comes out of Nat,
the XML report that comes
out of an unit in
out of ethics cop are
all brought together automatically by
the VCC net, the cruise
control net it's colloquially called
CC net as a what's
called a publisher. So you
go into a file called
CC net config, and you
can set up multiple publishers
saying, well, I've got some
XML coming from here and
some XML coming from here
and I want to use
these style sheets, these XSL
style sheets, a lot of
which come with cruise control
to build up at giant
report at the end. So
I'm going to take that
XML that comes out of
each of these different tools
and turn it into a
really rich dynamic report that
gets sent out to the
entire team. And they get
told how things are doing,
and that's what you need
at the end of the
day. Have you seen a
Adam Cogans code auditor? Yeah.
That we talked about on
dotnet rocks last week. Absolutely.
There's lots of great tools
like Adam's auditor, FX cops.
Similar Adams works on code
ethics, cop works on reflection.
These are the kinds of
things that you might want
to build in. I mean,
it would be a really
great thing if Adam created
XML as an output of
his code editor, I don't
know if he does that
could then be read in
and included into a report
and CC net would automatically
be able to handle that.
And by the way, code
auditor is a shrink to
that com slash BMD. Cool.
So if I can add
end unit doing automated testing
of course system, and I
can do FX cop, what
are some other things that
I can do? Well, and
unit of course is a
testing framework and there's also
things like M B unit.
And what's the tool from
Sean McCormack. Now the automated
builds aren't gonna test automatically
unless you have test cases
in that, right. So you
have to use some sort
of test. Yeah. Of course.
Generation tool to begin with.
Well, not necessarily a test
generation tool, but yeah. So
some kind of testing methodology,
it would be silly to
have things build and not
know if they're healthy. Sure.
So one of the things
that happens is when you're
having a build happening dozen
times a day, you get
this feedback of whether someone
broke the build, you start
to crave this feedback of
is this a healthy product
that we've made? We know
it keeps building. We can
look and see I'll look
for example, the Voyager SDK,
a project that I work
on has a 75% success
rating on builds. That means
it builds successfully, right? Three
out of four times, except
if a test fails, let's
say it compiles, but the
test fails. We count that
as a failed build, that's
an fundamental part of continuous
integration because buildings easy building
a testable integrated application and
popping an install installer out
the end is, is more
difficult, right? We can also
set up where F certain
ethics cop rules that we
feel strongly about. We'll break
the build. Hey, this is
Carl Franklin checkout test complete from
automated qa.com. Test complete does
automated testing of windows.net framework,
Java and web applications. It's
one jolt awards, two years
in a row from software
development magazine, even though it's
been voted best testing tool
test complete is really affordable.
It costs just a fraction
of what you'd have to
pay for its nearest big
name. Competitor test complete is
standards based and extensible with
a well-documented plugin API, and
the test scripts use familiar
languages, VB script, JavaScript C
sharp script C plus plus
script, and even Delphi scripts.
You choose the language that
works best for your team.
You don't have to buy
a dozen different modules to
test all your applications. Test
complete is a full development
environment. It has features like
an easy to use windows
test recorder that auto creates
test scripts and an advanced
script editor with features like
syntax highlighting code completion, and
context sensitive help. It has
test execute a lightweight utility
for running distributed tests and
test recorder, a library for
building tests into your application.
And if you plan on
using visual studio, 2005 team
system complete integrates nicely with
it and adds a new
test, complete test type. So
do yourself a favor in
download a free evaluation copy
of test complete@automatedqa.com. How often
Scott has it, has the
process turned out a quote
unquote, okay. Build. And then
it turns out you find
bugs anyway, You know, probably
probably half the time. I
mean, you still need good
QA people, right? You got
some great ones here that
will. And I wanted to
make is that, you know,
all this testing framework and
stuff, doesn't take the place
of somebody actually sitting down
and going to test, you
know, test it manually. Exactly.
And that QA person more
and more it Karelian is
pushing that test data back
into the product. Cool. Ideally,
we would actually build the
entire thing, do an end
unit test, which is kind
of a functional test. Then
we'd actually do a silent
install of the product as
part of the build, and
then do an integration test,
do an end to end
integration test and more and
more we're doing that. And
well end unit does easy
functional testing. There were tools
like end unit ASP and
end unit forms. You can
get those at end unit
forms, dot sourceforge.net and unit
asp.sourceforge.net. These are extensions to
any unit that let you
test when forms actually like
push buttons and poke around
on a wind farm or
test asp.net forms at Carilion.
We've been using a tool
called water w a T
I R web application testing
in Ruby. And I've got
a little article up on
my blog@shrinks.com slash . And
if you go up on
my blog and search for
water, w a T I
R you'll find not only
stuff that I've done with
water, but stuff that one
of our guys at Kirlian
named Travis Illig has done
to extend water. We've got
another guy named Dustin Woodhouse,
there's extending water and, and
unit such that this Ruby
based scripting language will actually
create end unit tests and
end unit results. Now, a
lot of people might not
know what Ruby is. So
Ruby is a scripting language
that a lot of people
find very beautiful in its
style feels kind of like
Python. It feels kinda like
scheme. It feels kind of
like C plus plus it's
just one of those languages
that feels nice in your
mouth and feels nice. There's
actually fellow who did a,
a presentation where he had
no bullet points in his
presentation. He had only Ruby
code because he felt that
the beauty of the code
itself spoke enough to, you
know, it's that, it's that
kind of code a gentleman
named johnLamb@unknown.com believes very strongly
in the beauty of Ruby.
And every once in a
while, he'll have an epiphany
while he's writing Ruby and
then he'll post Up on
his blog. Oh, I took
these six lines Codes and
turn it into that two
lines of code and Ruby.
And I'm just an hammered
with Ruby today. It's, it's
that kind of a feeling.
And then water is an
I E and internet Explorer
wrapper for Ruby, such that
you can write these kinds
of tests. And then I
wrote a little index, little
cheapy application called water maker
that would basically record your
experience while you're inside of
a IIE. And it would
basically write out the beginnings
of a, of a water
test and people are looking
to extend that. That's very
cool. So you mentioned building
installers as part of this
process. What are some tools
to automate that process At
the simplest level? Of course,
visual studio supports building installers
from the dev and development
environment itself. For a lot
of our stuff, we just
actually shell out and call
development environment dot exe, launching
DVD proj from the command
line, the deployment project that
comes with a visual studio.
But for, for the times
that that doesn't work, you
can use a number of
different tool sets. You can
use command line versions of
install shield, but since the
continuous integration world and the
cruise control world is so
focused on getting a lot
of great work done with
open source tools, tools you'll
often find are things like
windows, installer, XML, or Wix
does it sourceforge.net/projects last week,
Or Wix wix.sf.net. Yeah. We're
excited as if.net or the
Knoll soft scriptable install system
NSIs used to be called
the pimp. This is the
tool that the guys that
made when amp used to
install when amp, it's a
very elegant installing system@nsisdotsourceforge.net. These
are all things that can
be called from your net
build script and or an
ant, depending on, you know,
some people say Jif, some
people say GIF, some people
say Nance and people say,
Annette, I don't know if
you say Jif, you're, you've
got problems. It's a peanut
butter. We've been over this.
Yeah, totally. You can call
these different installer makers at
the end of your, at
end of your transcript. And
if you wanted to take
it to the next level,
then you would then do
a remote deploy or a
remote install of your application,
and then start doing integration,
testing some of the other
things that you can stick
at the end of your
build. Once you have the
ability to do all these
things, you know, that that
framework are doing things like
development metrics like what's called
psychosomatic complexity. A second medical
complexity is, is how many
different paths through a particular
function are there? Let's say
that there's a function called
Fu right. It takes a
Boolean. So it has one
input and it can be
false or true. So there
are two ways through that
particular method so that its
complexity might be considered too.
There's some papers that are
written about cyclometic complexity and
there's great tools like dev
metrics from a company called
anticipating minds@shrinks.com slash . They
have a command line tool
that will go through your
entire source code base and
tell you the complexity of
your particular project project at
a method by method basis.
And then you can flag
things in the build and
say, wow, anything that has
a complexity of 10, indicating
that there are 10 or
more ways through this method,
which is arguably a number
that is greater than the
amount of paths that a
human could comfortably store in
their head. Right? I can
barely hold my phone number
and my wife's phone number.
I can't hold 10 different
paths through some code that
would be a time to
then kick out. We need
to have a code review.
Now whether you choose to
break the build or not
is really up to you,
but this is some kinds
of feedback you can get
that you couldn't before. Another
one is a tool called
Simeon, which is a similarity
based tool. It looks for,
it looks, this is actually
kind of funny. It looks
for copy pasting within your
source code base. It's a
shrink stir.com/bma. Simeon's actually written
in Java, but it'll work
on.net code. And it will
find places where say you
and I are working on
the same project. And I
found a four loop that
I really liked copy pasted
it, but added a little
bit. And it will go
and say, you know, this
is suspiciously similar. I think
this is a candidate for
refactoring. Yeah, we did this
on a DAS blog. And
I think we found something
like 14 or 15% of
it was just complete duplication.
Mark Miller told me once that
developer expresses refactor looks at
psychosomatic complexity. And that's one
of the main characteristics that
it use to determine whether
refactoring is necessary. Mark Miller, being
an expert on ref refactoring,
generally with all the factors
that he put into refactor
and in code rush, having
the, the nice chart and
graph that you get as
a toolbox within the code
rush product is pretty, it's
pretty powerful stuff. That's a
very visceral way of finding
out which function in your
application kind of sucks the
most. Yep. These are all
things that you can add
into your net build all
of which provide feedback, any
one of which you can
choose to fail. The build
on this is too complicated.
These numbers are wrong. There's
too much similarity here. Whatever
none of this is meant
to do anything other than
promote collective ownership. So this
is one of those things
where the Eagle is programmer
really kind, kinda needs to
come into play. If it's
five o'clock and it's five
o'clock on a Friday night,
somebody checked some code in
and they don't wait for
the bill to run and
they just go and the
build breaks that person has
to take responsibility for that.
And they need to come
back in because you don't
know who's coming in on
the weekend to work on
that code. Yep. That's been
a big part of a
collective code ownership here at,
at Kirlian. One of the
other great things about cruise
control. Now that we've extended
it from not just one
project, but literally dozens within
our, our company is they've
got a web based dashboard
that the types can look
at and see all of
the health, basically of all
the builds within the building.
And then we just added
that as an HTML web
part to, to a SharePoint.
So now a manager type
can go up to his
SharePoint dashboard and see a
green green, green, Oh, it
looks like Fred's bank. Hasn't
built correctly in the last
three days, I'm going to
talk to their managers, see
if they're having some trouble.
We can't get that fixed.
Where does visual studio team
system fit into all of
this team system is the
first attempt at kind of
formalizing a number of practices
around development. Before I think
that visual studio.net was a,
a single user tool. It,
they understood that there were
more than one person working
on a particular project, but
the, the, the sense of
collective tasks of code coverage
of testing, wasn't baked in
things like Jamie Cannes, Dales
T test driven.net. That's been
integrated into a visual studio,
filled a gap that the
2002 in 2003 versions of
the visual studio product didn't
fail team system attempts to
formalize. We understand that there's
a team. We understand that
there are some best practices.
And, and this is how
we think that team-based software
development should work. And all
of these tools that you
mentioned will integrate nicely with
team system. Yeah, Everyone who
is making these tools and
working on these tools is
trying to do it in
such a way that they
don't break anything that comes
with team system. And I
think that looking at Jamie
Cannes Dale's stuff@ashrinker.com slash BM
five, this is something that
was released today and has
something very significant that we
should talk about. But to
start with Jamie has created
a thing called test-driven dot
net. You can go to
www dot test-driven dot net.
And this is an add
in that you can install
in visual studio, any version.
This is significant. So, I
mean, if there was a
way to underline and bold
face this, or have people
pull over their cars, you
can integrate this with any
version of visual studio, including
the express skews, wow express,
or the free tools that
you can use to have
visual studio, VB C sharp
asp.net development. The express line
of skews are free versions
of visual studio. They're they're
dumbed down slightly, but they're
for the hobbyist. They're for
the, for the fellow who
just really didn't need a,
an MSDN license and great
for learning. Fantastic for learning
all of our coding for
fun stuff up at msdn.com/coding
for fun has done entirely
with the express skews. They're
small downloads. They won't hurt
your machine. They don't have
the full MSDN help. They
use the online version instead,
and doing, doing testing, doing
test driven development typically has
meant using the end unit
gooey or any unit console
tools as a separate thing
that you would shell out
to Jamie's stuff@shrinks.com slash .
Now released today will integrate
with the express tools. You
can right click within function
and say, run tests on
that function. This is test
driven, not net. We're still
talking about yeah. Test driven.net.
And I just, I just
truly cannot say enough, nice
things about test driven.net. But
the thing that's the most
powerful is the thing that
we haven't mentioned yet too
much is this concept of
code coverage. We touched a
little bit on it when
we were talking about cyclometric
complexity, let's say that there's
two ways through a particular
function. Then arguably there needs
to be two different test
cases to test both of
those. If we were to
have 100% coverage. Yeah. There's
a tool called N cover
and cover.org and C O
V E r.org and N
cover runs and instruments your
code while your tests are
going on to find out
what chunks of your code
never got executed. Wow, cool.
That produces an XML file
that can then be styled
by cruise control. But what's
exciting about what Jamie has
released is that he, along
with grant Drake have released
an end cover Explorer. This
is a file that reads
the XML files created by
the coverage tool, giving non
visual studio 2005 users full
code coverage with squiggly is
like, like a misspelling underneath
the lines of code that
did not get run. So
now you can actually right
click on a method on
a project, on a code
file and say, right, click
test with coverage. He will
run your tests automatically within
visual studio, and then immediately
pop up the end, cover
Explorer telling you instantly what
parts of your code were
not exercised. It wasn't their
code coverage reporting built individual
studio team system. So there
is code coverage built into
versions of the 2005 teams,
suite developer, and tester. What
there isn't is support for
any other visual studio, right
skew. Now what Jamie and
the test driven.net guys and
grant Drake have done is
come up with code coverage,
integrated into every single visual
studio SKU. How hard are
all these tools to set
up and get going with
it? I mean, you, you
rattled off just like a
big list of tools here
is this, is this stuff
that you can put together
in an afternoon, or, you
know, is this going to
take some serious time? I
think, yes, both what you
said is true. It is
something you can get running
in an afternoon in the
sense of you can install
cruise control. It's easy. You
can make a simple Nat
file that would just call
visual studio, but there are
some tools within Nat, like
the solution, a task that
will actually read in your
CS proj and run using
your CS project source run
a build. I do a
lot of builds of DAS
blog that way on my
own machine. And I'll be
including that in our build.
Soon, we're hoping to set
up a continuous integration server
for, for DAS blog. So
just getting napped, cruise control,
and then having it send
out email of the reports
is a start getting into
doing end unit takes a
commitment. It takes a realization
that testing is important. So
at the very minimum, you'd
want to have cruise control
Nant and end unit. What's
great about this is it's
all modular. When you want
to bring in FX cop,
as the organization can, can
handle it, start introducing things
like water or dev metrics.
This took us really three
years to sell to everyone
where now it's just understood.
Everyone loves it, and everyone
wants to do it this
way, but it was a
hard sell to start with.
So start with Nanton and
unit start with tools like
test driven.net that are just
so easy, right? That it's
ridiculous. Even if you don't
do any of the continuous
integration stuff, start looking at
how much easy it is
to right click within there's
studio and say, run tests.
Now folks will say, Oh,
well, I can go into
visual studio and the project
properties. And instead of launching
my executable or my DLL,
I can just say launch
and unit gooey as the
target executable. Sure, absolutely. You
can do that. You hit
that five and you'll automatically
run a unit QE, but
this is a kind of
integration that is kind of
more fundamental. It makes it
feel like it was part
of the product the whole
time. When you say right
click and say, run tests
down at the bottom when
it pops up and it
says build, and you see
all the build stuff go
by. After that combo box
in the toolbox at the
bottom of visual studio says,
bill, that immediately switches over
to test and the results
of the test come out.
We're not talking about shelling
out into dos to do
funky stuff, right? They've got
a formal integration technique with
visual studio. That's really something
to be seen. Excellent. Well,
Scott, any last minute words
before we go for this
week? You know, I probably
miss something. There's probably another
tool or an add on
to cruise control. I know
that a lot of people
have been trying to get
ms. Build the 2005 ms.
Build stuff, working with cruise
control. If you Google for
those things, you'll find it.
I'm sure that I missed
someone's favorite tool, but do
try to learn about continuous
integration. There's a thriving community
out there that are working
on this kind of stuff.
Once you've instituted this in
your company, no matter how
small your team is, it'll
be really difficult to go
back to anything. Anything else?
Indeed. Thank you, Scott. And
we'll talk to you the
listener next week on .